gosar;Com goses dir-me això?;dare;ˈdeə;How do you dare?
fortament enamorat, encapritxat;;infatuated;ɪnˈfætʃəˌweɪtəd;Filled with foolish or very strong love or admiration. He was infatuated with his teacher.
deure diners;;owe;ˈoʊ;To need to pay or repay money to a person, bank, business, etc. I still owe money of the car.
examinar, investigar a fons;Propostes per examinar les grans ofertes d'adquisició;vet, vetting;vet;Make a careful and critical examination of (something). Proposals for vetting large takeover bids.
veterinari;;vet | veterinarian;vet;I am a vet that cures animals.
empassar-se;;swallow;swalou;She swallowed a cupcake slowly.
fluix, que no apreta;Té una dent fluixa.;loose;ˈluːs;Not tightly fastened, attached, or held. A loose tooth.
perdre;;lose, lost, lost;ˈluːz, lost, lost;I lose my head.
bordar (un gos);;bark;baak;The dog only barks when someone approaches the house.
doblegar;El vent ha doblegat la branca de l'arbre.;bend, bent, bent;bend, bent, bent;The wind bent the long grass.
barrejar, mixturejar;;blend;blend;Mix (a substance) with another substance so that they combine together. To blend the milk with the chocolate.
germa o germana;;sibling;'sibling;Brother or sister.
intent, esforç, de canviar les coses;Un intent d'eliminar la malària.;endeavour;ənˈdevər;Try hard to do or achieve something. He is endeavoring to help the Third World.
amortitzar;;amortize;amortaiz; 
exempció, eximir (de pagar una multa);He sigut eximit de pagar la multa.;waiver (n), waive (v);ˈweivər;I have been waived from paying the fine.
determinar quelcom;;determine;dɪˈtəːmɪn;Cause (something) to occur in a particular way. It will be her mental attitude that determines her future.
conquistar (en l'amor o similar);Guanyar-se la voluntat d’algú.;win over;win oʊvə;She won over me in love.
sacsejada abrupta (en un avió p.ex.);;jolt (n, regular v);dʒəʊlt;He felt a jolt when the plane started to climb.
penjar (un quadre);;hang, hung, hung;hang, hʌng, hʌng;He hangs a picture on the wall.
tallar, esculpir;;carve, carve out;kɑːv;Cut, sculpt (a hard material) in order to produce an object. Carve a sculpture.
tinc enveja (sana);;I am envious | I have envy;ˈɛnvɪəs | ˈɛnvi;I am envious of your holidays.
agulla;;needle;ˈnidəl;To find a needle in a haystraw.
palla;;straw;stroː;A bed/pile of straw.
suar;;sweat;ˈswɛt;
dolor;Tenir dolor, mal de cap.;ache;ˈeɪk;To have head ache.
atracament;;heist | robbery;haɪst | ˈrɒbəri;Money heist.
robar;Robar diners.;steal, stole, stolen;stiːl;Johnny was accused of stealing from the shop.
quedar-se quiet;(De peu, encara);stand still;stænd stɪl;Please, stand still!
aposta, apostar;;bet|wager;bɛt|ˈweɪdʒə;The bet was that the loser would clean the house for a week.
suspir;;sigh;saɪ;
peó (d'escacs);;pawn;po:n;Pawns are the lowest value pieces on a chess board.
mercaderia;Mercaderies en un vaixell de càrrega;freight;freit;Freight or goods in a cargo ship or freighter.
enlluernat;Em vaig enlluernar amb la seva bellesa.;dazzle;ˈdazəl;I was dazzled by her beauty.
lio, desordre, follon;;muddle;ˈmʌdəl;	Who's responsible for this muddle of clothes on the floor?
angústia;;distress;dɪˈstrɛs;A distress call.
horripilante;;creepy;ˈkriːpi; Your robot is creepy.
cotxe, moto, vehicle petit;;runabout;rʌnəbaʊt; I can park my runabout anywhere.
aviram, aus de corral;;poultry;ˈpəʊltri;Domestic fowl (au), such as chickens, turkeys and ducks.
esbufegar o suspirar;;gasp;gɑːsp;
estar quelcom penjat, suspés;Penja d'un fil;dangle;ˈdæŋgəl;The kids dangled their feet over the dock.
rosada (emblanquinada matinera);;dew;ˈdju;It was early morning and the grass was covered with dew.
malvat, pervers;;evil | nefarious | wicked;ˈivəl | nɪˈfɛərɪəs | ˈwɪkɪd;My nefarious (or wicked) stepmother tried to keep me away from my father.
l'alba (sortida del sol);;dawn;do:n;Helen watched the dawn as she drank her morning coffee.
trinar (un moixonet);;trill;trɪl;The trill of a sparrow.
pardal;;sparrow;sˈpæroʊ;Sparrow is a small bird.
beguda fermentada (especialment cervesa), fermentar;;brew;bru;To brew means to make a liquid by boiling and fermenting ingredients, mainly used referring to beer, ale.
juerga, parranda;;spree;spri:;The friends had a few days off work and went on a spree to the coast. Went on a shopping/spending/drinking spree. Killing spree (matança).
crossa;;crutch;krʌtʃ;Peg Leg Joe threw his crutches away.
niu;Niu de pardals;nest;nest;Sparrow nest.
llumí, "misto";;match;mætʃ;
portador;;bearer;ˈbɛərə;I hate to be the bearer of bad news.
ràbia;;rage;reɪdʒ;Rage against the machine.
feble de salut o forces;Estava feble després de la covid.;feeble;ˈfibəl;Physically weak because of age or sickness. The patient was still feeble after her illness.
engany, farsa (a un colecitu, política);;humbug;ˈhʌmbʌg;The government's policy was nothing but a humbug. They lied us.
carn picada;;mince;mɪns;Tom bought some fresh mince from the butcher, minced by Karen.
assajar, practicar;;rehearsal;rɪˈhɝsəl;The rehearsal went well with all the actors being ready for the performance.
l'oblid (n conceptual);;oblivion;oˈblivion;The author's works were in the oblivion.
imprudent, temerari;;reckless;ˈrɛkləs;He is reckless with the drink.
agafar amb força;;grab|grasp;grab|grɑsp;Mike grabbed|grasped his bag tightly on the subway.
igualment;;equally|likewise;ikwəli|ˈlaɪkwaɪz;-A pleasure. -Likewise.
estar familiaritzat amb;Estic familiaritzat amb la cultura grega o amb fulano.;to be acquainted;əˈkweɪntɪd;I believe you are acquainted with Miss Forbes. With the greek culture.
pícaro, murri;;rogue;rəʊg;Rogue one.
presuntament;;allegedly;əˈlɛdʒɪdli;He allegedly made bribery paying a present.
la vetlla (víspera);;eve;iv;Christmas Eve (the day before Christmas) and New Year’s Eve (the day before New Year’s Day).
boia (náutica);;buoy;bɔɪ;A buoy is a floating marker.
cunya de falcar;;wedge;wɛdʒ;Polly pushed a wedge under the door to hold it open.
abocador (basurero), tirar (de patac, a lo bèstia);;dump;dʌmp;Core dump.
insignificant;;petty;ˈpɛti;Tom Petty.
àgil;;agile|nimble;ˈædʒaɪl|ˈnɪmbəl;IBM is a nimbler enterprise now.
hàbil;;skillful | deft (physical);ˈskɪlfʊl | dɛft;With a deft hand, Alicia quickly mended the sock.
àcid;;sour;ˈsaʊə;Lemon is sour.
brillar;;shine|glow;ʃaɪn|gloʊ;The sun is shining or glowing.
taça (de llet, gran i recta);;mug;mʌg;Large cup with handle.
un que és poc favorit;;underdog;ʌndərdɒg;It was a surprise to everyone when the underdog won the match.
armadura;;armor;ˈɑːrmər;In the Middle Ages, knights wore armor in tournaments.
maldestre, "torpe";;clumsy;ˈklʌmzi;
incòmoda, inoportuna (situació);Vaig tenir una conversa incòmoda amb la ex.;awkward;ˈɔːkwərd;	I had an awkward conversation with my ex-girlfriend.
créixer;;grow, grew, grown;groʊ, gruː, groʊn;
laberint;;maze;meɪz;It is a maze.
canela;;cinnamon;ˈsɪnəmən;Cinnamon toast are known as "torradetes de Santa Teresa".
monstre, gegant (figuratiu);IBM és un monstre de companyia.;behemoth;bɪˈhi:məθ;A huge or monstrous creature. IBM is a behemoth company.
indignant;Un comportament indignant;outrageous;aʊtˈreɪdʒəs;John was rude and his behaviour was outrageous.
caure en picat, desplomar-se (també figuratiu);El preu s'ha desplomat;plummet;ˈplʌmɪt;The company's sales have plummeted this year. The airplane has plummeted.
de recanvi;Una roda de recanvi.;spare;spɛr;A spare tyre.
violar;Violar una llei. O sexualment.;rape;reɪp;Rape is a crime that severely traumatises its victims.
endreçat;;tidy;ˈtaɪdi;A tidy house.
bonificació (sobre algo ja comprat);;rebate;ˈriːbeɪt;A partial refund to someone who has paid too much money for tax, rent, or a utility.
pecador;;sinner;sɪnə;
rarament, quasi mai;;seldom;ˈsɛldəm;John is self-employed and seldom takes holidays.
llista de persones (amb horaris normalment), torns;Mira el torn per la setamana que ve;roster;ˈrɒstə;Check the roster to see what hours you're working next week.
pregar, suplicar;Li prego em disculpi;beg;bɛg;I beg your pardon.
contrabandista;;smuggler;ˈsmʌglə;Smugglers brought the drugs in through tunnels.
advocat de lleis;;attorney;əˈtɜːrni;Suits is a series of attorneys.
flama i flamarada;;flame and blaze;fleɪm and bleɪz;Blaze is from fire. Do not mix with blazer, which is a sport coat.
"aunque" en castellà;;albeit;ɔlˈbit;The flowers are beautiful, albeit not appropriate for this event.
alabar;Va ser alabada per la seva feina com a voluntària.;praise;preɪz;She was praised for her volunteer work.
taló;Taló del peu i tacon(s) de sabates;heel;hiːl;Jen liked to wear heels because she was taller, although her right heel was hurt.
remordiment;;remorse;remorse;rɪˈmɔːs;Deep regret or guilt for a wrong committed.
